# icse-tamil-translations

Hosting English translations of Sarithra Sambavangal and Veerapandiya Kattabomman


# Sarithra Sambavangal

### Chapter 1

There was a great Chola emperor Rajaraja cholan whose strength and valour are immeasurable. He belonged to the lineage of Vijayalaya Cholas and was their eighth descendant. During his rule, the Cholas had grown powerful with their territory extending all over the east coast of India and its northern limit was upto the Narmada river. Rajaraja chozhan is known for the great temple he had built in his capital city of Thanjavur.

There's a story that explains the reason for building this temple. It's said that once the king fell severely ill. Then he prayed to build a temple for Shiva if he gets well. Accordingly he built the temple when he was cured. But this is only a hearsay story without any evidence. The actual reason for building this temple was his devotion towards lord shiva.

In the Pallava city of Kanchi, there lived a sculptor named Somavarman. Once there was a big famine in the city and they couldn't find any means to live. So Somavarman decided to leave Kanchi in search of some other kingdom where his sculpture skills would help him earn money. His wife who was pregnant then, also waited for her husband to arrive soon. But he didn't return. The baby was born and he grew into a ten-year old boy who also became an eager sculptor like his father. When he knew about how his father had left Kanchi, that boy also set out to find his father. 

Meanwhile at Thanjavur, preparations for building the temple had commenced. Sculptors from all over the kingdom came to the capital. The king had announced that the sculptors had to submit a model of the temple. The one whose model is the best would be given the chance to design the temple. There were sculptors among whom there was one exceptional sculptor. He had also designed the famous Meenakshi temple at Madurai. His hometown is Kanchi. That sculptor is none other than Somavarman. He also submitted his model of the temple and that impressed the king very much. So Rajaraja chozhan entrusted the responsibility of building the temple to Somavarman.

Then the young boy from Kanchi (referred to as Balasirpi) had set out on a journey to find his father. First he decided to come to Thanjavur since many sculptors had gathered there for the temple building activity. After a long journey Balasirpi reached Thanjavur. He was welcomed there by an old granny. She offered him food and asked him to rest for some time. In the afternoon a boy of about his age came there. He is that granny's grandson named Kulasekaran. He too was a sculptor who works at the Thanjavur temple building site. He had come home for lunch. After lunch, both the boys were talking about sculpture and Rajaraja chozhan's admiration for sculptures. Then they both went to the temple site. As Kulasekaran went for his work, Balasirpi visited the entire site. When he finally reached the basement, he was surprised. He went to Kulasekaran and asked who designed the basement. While Kulasekaran was explaining about the chief sculptor Somavarman, he arrived there. Balasirpi asked Somavarman whether he was sure if the basement he designed would support the temple. Everyone over there got surprised and upset about the boy's impudence. However Somavarman only felt an unknown affection towards him. Anyway he ignored the question and got to his work. On returning home, that evening Kulasekaran also told Balasirpi that it was wrong that Balasirpi had asked such a question. Balasirpi replied that he couldn't stay quiet after knowing the structure had mistakes. This made Kulasekaran amazed by his friend's frankness.

The temple building activity progressed and one fine day, three layers of the temple were erected. Everyone praised the knowledge and talent of Somavarman. But the very next day, the structure collapsed. Then everyone was amazed and exclaimed about how that small boy's words came true. Somavarman straight away went to Kulasekaran's house to find Balasirpi. He wanted to know how that boy was able to predict this. But Kulasekaran's granny said that both the boys had been to the neighbouring village and would return by evening. Somavarman said he'll come later and left. On that evening, as they returned the boys came to know that the temple collapsed. Kulasekaran was impressed by his friend's knowledge. When they came home, they came to know that Somavarman had been there in search of Balasirpi. They had dinner and before they could sleep, Balasirpi went to have a glass of milk which the granny had kept for him. To his surprise, Balasirpi saw the milk spilt all over the floor and a dead cat lying nearby. He realised that someone has poisoned the milk trying to kill him since they were jealous of his knowledge. So he immediately fled from that house. In the early hours of the next day, Somavarman came in search of Balasirpi. Only then Kulasekaran and his granny noticed the dead cat and spilt milk and realised that Balasirpi would've mistaken them to have poisoned the milk and hence ran away from the house. When Somavarman heard this, he asked Kulasekaran and his granny about the details of that young boy. They said that the boy was from Kanchi and they told his mother's name and her story and how he had been here in search of his father. That was enough for Somavarman to understand that Balasirpi was his own son. He immediately left in search of the boy. 

Meanwhile the boy ran hurriedly to where his legs took him. In the midst of darkness, he couldn't see a thing. So the boy fell into a ditch which was covered with thorns. He got several bruises and was also exhausted and hungry. As he lay in there, he saw a faint image of a pair of eyes watching him from outside the ditch. It was a tiger. The tiger was waiting there for the sun to rise. In the dark, it wasn't able to see how to get into the ditch. Balasirpi was very tense and sad that everything had come to an end like this. But at that time, he heard someone approaching. It was Somavarman. He jumped into the ditch without minding anything. Looking at that, the tiger also jumped in and there was a fierce combat between the tiger and Somavarman. Finally Somavarman strangled the tiger to death and fainted instantly. At the break of dawn, the nearby villagers had found the boy and Somavarman. They offered first aid and treated their wounds with herbs. When Somavarman became conscious, he told Balasirpi that he was the person Balasirpi had been searching for. The joy of that father and son knew no bounds.

Later, they went to the temple site and rectified it as per Balasirpi's plans and the temple was erected majestically. The king was happy about how such a magnificent temple was built. He profusely rewarded all the sculptors with gifts and treasure. He specially rewarded Balasirpi and his father Somavarman. This is how the temple came into being and still stands tall to talk the laurels of our ancestors.

### Chapter 2

India had several rulers who changed the face of the nation's history. One such a ruler is Chandragupta Maurya. Though he was a great king in history, his initial days were full of struggle. He lost his father even before his birth. So his mother moved to her brother's place at Patliputra. Since they had no money, her brother instructed her to leave the baby at someone's house who would raise the baby well. Accordingly her mother left the baby at a cowherd rearer's house. He raised the baby well but when he grew up into a small boy, the cowherd man sold the boy to a hunter. The hunter used this boy to rear cattle. There were also other boys who reared cattle like Chandragupta  One day the boys played a game of kings and subjects. Even in that game, Chandragupta exhibited excellent leadership traits. This game was being watched by a learned Brahmin Vishnugupta. This Brahmin is none other than Chanakya. Chanakya went to the hunter and paid the money for releasing Chandragupta and took Chandragupta with him and educated him. Chanakya could foresee that this boy could rise up as a great king in future. In due time, Chandragupta became educated and trained in warfare and was fit to be a ruler. 

That was the time when Maghada was ruled by Mahapadmananda and his brothers known as Nava nanda. They were brutal rulers who ruled the country like tyrants. On the other hand, Greek king Alexander was attacking the North West frontiers around Punjab and trying to invade further. Chandragupta realised that a strong united force was required to stop the Greeks. So with the guidance of Chanakya, he mobilized the Panchalas. They were brave people who at present lacked a leader. So Chandragupta led them into a united force and started integrating several small kingdoms. He also devised a new war strategy to attack the Greeks and trained his soldiers accordingly. By the time he was ready to attack the Greeks, Alexander retreated, only his representatives were ruling the invaded kingdoms. Chandragupta at once attacked them and thwarted the Greeks. 

Now that things were over with the outside invaders, Chandragupta shifted his focus to Maghada. It wasn't easy to attack Mahapadmananda. He had a huge army. So he had to gather appropriate support before he could launch an attack. With the help of Chanakya's strategy, Chandragupta was able to win the favour of several commanders who worked under Mahapadmananda. The people were also not happy with Nanda's rule. All of this paved the way for Chandragupta. He was able to defeat the Nandas and take over Maghada too. Immediately next, Chandragupta started conquering several other smaller kingdoms and consolidated his empire. Chanakya had advised that having a large empire would be beneficial to thwart the invaders from entering the nation.

Like this, Chandragupta had a large empire that extended from Bengal in the east to Hindukush in the west and Himalayas in the north to Narmada in the south. He ruled the country for 24 years with the able guidance of the political expert Chanakya. So this is the story of how a humble cowherd boy went on to become the ruler of a great empire.






### Chapter 3

The date May 9, 1540 is an important date in the history of India. It was the day on which a great king of this nation was born. He was born to protect the honour of his kingdom Mewar and to cherish the valour of its capital Chithore. That king's name is Maharana Pratap.

His grandfather Sangram Singh also known as Rana Sanga was a great ruler who ruled Mewar very efficiently. But his son Uday Singh was totally opposite to this. He was a cowardly and lazy ruler who was interested only in merrymaking. He neglected the duties of a king but only enjoyed the privileges. Due to this, Mewar lost its glory and even lost some of its territorial lands to the Mughals. Uday Singh had several children through many of his wives. Among them, Pratap Singh, Sakthi Singh and Jagmal were important ones. When it came to talent and bravery Pratap was excellent. Sakthi was a brave warrior. Jagmal was relatively less talented in comparison to others. However, since Jagmal was the son of Uday Singh's favourite wife, he got the chance to the throne even though Pratap was better.

Pratap was a brave and valorous person yet he was also very affectionate to his siblings. There's one incident in his life which shows this. When Sakthi was a small boy, then king of Mewar Uday Singh had made an arrangement to test a sword. A rope was tied from two ends and it was to be cut by the sword to check if the sword is sharp and efficient. However, the young boy Sakthi took the sword and cut his little finger and said that the sword is indeed sharp and added that this is how a sword has to be tested. But the king Uday Singh instead of admiring his son's courage, got angry at his son for disrespecting him. He immediately ordered Sakthi to be killed. But the king of Chalumpara province was also present there. Since he was childless, he interfered and requested Uday Singh to exile Sakthi Singh. He said that he would take Sakthi Singh with him to Chalumpara. Uday Singh agreed and Sakthi Singh was taken away. But Pratap who had been seeing all of this, couldn't help but feel sorry for Sakthi. However he had Sakthi in his mind. In due course of time, Pratap became the ruler of Mewar and in the meantime Chalumpara king also had a son of his own. So he felt Sakthi Singh to be an unnecessary competitor for the throne. So Maharana Pratap asked the Chalumpara king to send back his brother Sakthi Singh. Pratap's affection towards his brother was so deep. 

But it's also sad that the same Pratap would later also depose this very brother and exile him. Once Pratap and Sakthi went hunting. They both shot their arrows at a pig. Pratap's arrow struck the pig first but Sakthis ' arrow only killed it. So they argued about to whom that pig belonged. Soon there was an intense debate between them. However one of Pratap's teachers who was also present in the scene, tried to pacify Pratap and make him understand that they shouldn't fight over such a trivial matter. However Pratap and Sakthi were unstoppable. Their argument intensified and they took out their swords and started fighting each other. In order to stop them, that teacher finally got in the way of Sakthi Singh's sword and thereby lost his life. Pratap being angered by this, immediately exiled Sakthi and said that he's excusing Sakthi Singh and thus sparing his life but stated that he should be out of his sight. Sakthi Singh also replied that he'll remember these bitter words and duly return the favour. After saying this, Sakthi left the place and went and joined with Mughal king Akbar.

Pratap was a great king and this was evident from his early days itself. He declared that he would renounce palatial life and would live his life in the forests until he reclaimed Chithore from the Mughals. The mountains became his castle, caves became his royal chamber, rocks were his pillows, leaves were his dining plates, sky was his roof. Like this, he lived resolutely to get back Chithore from the clutches of the enemies. The ancient region of modern day Rajasthan was ruled by the Rajput kings. They were known for their uncompromising valour. But during Pratap's time, many rajputs had sided with the Mughals, some of them even made marital alliances, some of them remained loyal vassal states. All of this to save their lives. But Pratap Singh did not like this mentality. Till the end, he loathed the idea of being subdued by a foreign Mughal ruler. As a result he also hated his own kinsmen, those rajputs, who were loyal to the Mughals. He didn't even want to meet or talk with such people.

There's an incident which also proves that Pratap was so contemptuous of those rajputs who sided with the Mughals. Once there was a war won by Mughals at Solapur. It was won under the commander Man Singh who was a rajput loyal to the Mughals. Being intoxicated by his association with the Mughals, he came to Pratap and talked about the benefits of being in the good books of Mughals. He also said that Mughals were becoming tolerant. They agreed to marriage according to Hindu customs, they abolished jizya (a tax imposed on non-Islamic communities) and were also contemplating a ban on cow slaughter. But Pratap was not someone who would be delighted about this. But since he can't treat his guest in a rude manner, he welcomed Man Singh for lunch and left. Later at the lunch session, Man Singh was received by Pratap's son Amar Singh. But Man Singh enquired about Pratap. Amar informed that Pratap was ill and had a headache. Man Singh understood Pratap's intention and sarcastically asked what was the reason for this sudden headache. This was communicated to Pratap through messengers. To that, Pratap had replied that he had no business with those who admired Mughals and also added that he hated to even see such people. Man Singh was infuriated by this. He said that Pratap has made a blunder by insulting him and the Mughals on behalf of whom he came there. So he threatened that Pratap would face the consequences and left the place.

The Mughals planned an attack on Mewar. They had a very large army when compared to what Mewar had. However, Pratap was devising a strategy for fighting the Mughals. He asked everyone to evacuate the low-lying plains and hide in the midst of hills and valleys. When the Mughals arrived in their plains, they would be confused on seeing no one. At that time, the soldiers should make a surprise attack. Accordingly the Mughals also came with a huge army under the leadership of Prince Salim. Upon arriving at the plains, they were also perplexed and scared about the situation. Pratap was waiting for the entire Mughal army to enter the plains of Mewar. Once they entered, the soldiers would roll down boulders and launch spears, arrows and javelins into the plains. These plains were eighty miles wide and that was the only way into Mewar. So the entire Mughal army would've been decimated. But Man Singh, who knew the terrain of Mewar, played spoilsport. He hurried towards the plains from his city of Jaipur in order to alert the Mughals. 

When Pratap saw Man Singh he was very furious about how a native man is cheap enough to side with an invader like the Mughals in order to hunt down his own kinsmen. With all this rage, Pratap ordered a full scale attack on the Mughals. It didn't get along as planned but still the soldiers of Mewar fought very valiantly. Pratap moved swiftly on his horse Chetak and attacked the soldiers surrounding the Mughal prince. He killed all the soldiers around. The prince was seated on an elephant and Pratap even hurled a javelin at him. The javelin missed Salim by just a few inches and that's how that prince survived on to become the next Mughal king Jehangir. The ferocious battle pursued but since Mewar soldiers were outnumbered, it was an unfavourable  position for them. Meanwhile, the Mewar king had a flag and umbrella next to him. So it was easy to spot him on the battlefield. This was both an advantage and a disadvantage. And it was a disadvantage since Mewar soldiers were outnumbered and the flag gave away Pratap's location evidently to the enemies. So a commander named Manav Singh went near Pratap and asked his servants to hold the flag and umbrella for him. Pratap understood the cue and tried to move away. The Mughals were thinking Manav Singh to be the king of Mewar and pursued him vigorously. Meanwhile, though Pratap didn't like the idea of giving up, he retreated since he didn't want to lose the remaining army. So he informed his army to back out and started to leave the battlefield. During this time, Manav was bravely fighting the Mughals relentlessly and at one point he got killed. That's when the Mughals were celebrating that they had killed the king of Mewar. Pratap realised what had happened and shed some tears as he pulled off his horse to make an escape. However, Salim spotted Pratap riding away and he sought Man Singh's help to confirm if that was indeed Pratap. When Man Singh also confirmed it, Salim ordered four of his horsemen to follow Pratap. As Pratap escaped, he was being tailed by the Mughal horsemen and they were getting closer. Pratap was already severely injured and was at the end of his energy level and so was his horse Chetak. However Chetak put in all of his energy and ran at his best. Upon reaching the village Balicha in the region of Haldi gadi, there was a stream in between. Since wading through the stream would slowen them down drastically, Pratap thought of jumping it over with his horse. So he signalled his horse to alight a nearby mound and jump off towards the opposite bank. Chetak took one last breath, made a jump and successfully landed on the other bank but sadly, he died due to the impact. Pratap was very sorrowful about Chetak's loss. He embraced him one last time and started to move away when he heard a voice. It was his long lost brother Sakthi Singh. He offered his horse and let Pratap escape. Sakthi Singh tailed those four horsemen as though assisting them. Prince Salim also thought Sakthi was trying to exact his revenge against his brother. However Sakthi Singh was moved by the bravery Pratap had displayed on the field and moreover Pratap was his brother. So he decided to help him. He killed those three horsemen and gave his horse to his brother and returned to the Mughals. When Salim enquired about what has happened he said that he helped his brave brother. Saying thus, Sakthi Singh escaped from the place with his men into the jungle.

Later Sakthi Singh fought the Mughals and reclaimed a city named Vainasam from them and offered it to Pratap. This made Pratap happy and proud of his brother. But he offered Vainasam to Sakthi Singh itself. However then onwards Pratap and Sakthi joined together in combating the Mughals. The battle at Haldi gadi had been nearing its end. There was a constant threat from the Mughals and due to their persistent attacks, some Mewar soldiers would get killed and thus their strength dwindled.

Pratap fought his war from the forts of Kumbamedu. The Mughals besieged the fort and tried to attack it in vain. But later they came up with a plan to force the inhabitants out of the fort. They poisoned the water sources and bombarded the walls of the fort with cannons. Thus Pratap and his people made a secret escape and hid in the jungles to evade the Mughals. It was such a tough situation full of uncertainties. For instance, they would settle down to have a meal and suddenly they would sense enemies and have to leave the place. They would go elsewhere and would be about to start eating their food and enemies would close on. So they'll leave from there too. Like this, there were times when they would not have food for several days together.

Meanwhile Man Singh along with the Mughals, started conquering all the cities of Mewar. But Pratap and his men stayed in jungles and kept fighting. This stalemate extended to around 27 years. It had become a casual habit for these people to live in the jungle. Everyone including Pratap's wife and children had faced this hard situation. Pratap's wife Prabhamayi would generally prepare rice rotis for their meal. They would eat one roti for the day and save up one for the night. One day, Pratap's three year old daughter came to Pratap as she cried. She had complained that the roti saved up for eating later was snatched away by a jungle cat. She was sad that she felt hungry but had nothing to eat. Upon hearing these words of her daughter, Pratap became disheartened.

At that time, he felt tormented that there were several fathers like this in his kingdom who had spent years together in this futile war. Pratap felt shaken by the kind of life they had lived in till then. So he sent a letter to Akbar stating that he can sustain his entire life in the jungle but he can no longer bear the sufferings of his people. Akbar felt elated upon receiving this letter. He was relieved that this stalemate of several years had come to an ultimate end. However, at that time, there was a Hindu courtesan poet named Prithvirai at Akbar's court. He was a staunch Hindu who had helplessly been serving the Mughals. He had high reverence for Pratap and his ideals. He didn't want such a valourous king to surrender to the Mughals. So he intercepted and declared that he knew Pratap's handwriting and that the etter wasn't from Pratap. He claimed that this was a forged letter sent by someone else in order to confuse the Mughals. Upon hearing this, Akbar's delight came to an end.

Later Prithvirai secretly sent a letter to Pratap prasied Pratap that he is the only protector of Hindus in the nation at that time. Even when all other Rajputs were siding with the Mughals, Pratap had been steadfast. The Mughals tried to buy the kings with their power and money. But neither of them worked with Pratap. Having praised thus, Prithvi asked as to why Pratap had changed his mind suddenly. Finally he requested that whatever be the reason, Pratap shouldn't surrender to the Mughals. When Pratap read Prithivi's letter his courage and valour started to surge again and he became confident of fighting the Mughals. So he wrote a reply to Prithvi that his detailed reply to Prithvi's words would come through his sword and not his pen.

Pratap then started to gather his people and train them for the battle with the help of his new-found energy and spirit. He also included several forest tribe members in his army against the Mughals. His minister Bamashah and brother Sakthi Singh offered help in the form of wealth. Even some of his Rajput relatives who were earlier indifferent, now started to help Pratap through wealth and weapons. On the other hand, Mughal forces were lax that Pratap had become powerless. So Pratap was able to launch several successful attacks and he started to retrieve several cities that belonged to his kingdom. Even Akbar was surprised by his valour and power and at one point decided not to get involved with Pratap. Meanwhile Pratap recalled all the cheap actions of Man Singh. So he invaded his kingdom Jaipur and exacted his revenge.

Even in war, Maharana Pratap was a man of principles. Once his son Amar Singh besieged a camp of the Mughal army which was led by Rahim Khan khana. The Mughals had been in a drunken state. Amar Singh fought and killed all of them. Later he captured Rahim's wife Zinad. When Pratap saw this, he got infuriated with his son. He asked as to why he did such a grave, sinful act of capturing a woman. Only then Amar repented and said that he did like that because several of their women were captured like that by the Mughals. Later Zinad was respectfully sent back to Rahim as per Pratap's order.

Slowly and steadily, Pratap had reclaimed all of his kingdom from the Mughals. He had around 32 forts in his control at that time. It's just the Chithore fort alone that remains. So Pratap was planning to get it back in a year's time. Though he had everything planned well, Pratap fell severely ill. The impact of the past thirty year struggle took a serious toll on his health. The doctors had declared that there's nothing that they could do then onwards. So Pratap was in the brink of his end.

While in his death bed Pratap's face seemed like he was being troubled by some thought. One of his commanders noticed this and said that they have almost accomplished their dream of reclaiming Mewar. He also added that Chithore was pending and assured that they would capture that too. To these words, Pratap replied feebly that he was concerned whether his successors would be steadfast like him. In this regard, he narrated an incident from his son Amar Singh's childhood. While they stayed in the forests, once a piece of straw fell from the hut onto Amar's head. So he mumbled as to why he had to live in such a place. This left a lasting impact on Maharana Pratap. He felt concerned that his son would get accustomed to royal pleasures rather than safeguarding the kingdom. Once the commanders heard this reply of Pratap, they assured that they wouldn't let Amar deviateAmar to deviate from the welfare of the kingdom and would constantly engage him towards fighting for sovereignty of Mewar kingdom. So they requested Pratap to stay at peace. Thus, it's clear that Maharana Pratap is a brave son of this country who thought about the nation's welfare even in the brink of his     death.

### Chapter 4

The Valour of the Rajput clan is a world-renowned wonder .The bravery of the Rajput clan is second to no  other clan in this world . The Rajputs are honest and ever-thankful . It is said that even a coward who hears of the Rajput’s Valour will swing his sword .

This story dates back to 300 years ago . Raja Rao Chatrasal was the ruler of Pandi . The Mughals exercised a lot of power during this time period . It was the Mughal Ruler Shah Jahan who had helped Chhatrasal to power . Earlier the Rajputs and the Mughals used to be sworn enemies , but after Akbar made many matrimonial alliances with the Rajputs their relations had improved . 

Chhatrasal was extremely loyal to Shah Jahan . He belonged to the ‘Hara’ tribe.  He had won around 52 wars for Shah Jahan and had established himself as a great warrior . 

Mughal emperor Shah Jahan had 4 sons - Dara , Shuja , Murad , Aurangazeb . Dara was the oldest and the other 3 were younger . Shah Jahan had split his empire into 4 parts , and had sent his sons as representatives for each of the parts . Although he had the fame of constructing the world-renown Taj Mahal , his last-leg of life did not pass pleasantly . A war of succession , which had been brewing for quite some time , erupted all of a sudden . The sons raised the flag of war against their own father . The younger sons did not like Dara , to occupy the throne as the eldest son . In particular , Aurangazeb wanted all the power for himself . He was very cunning and could do anything to achieve whatever he wanted .

When the war of succession started , Aurangazeb was in the Deccan region . Chhatrasal was with him there . Shah Jahan had sent him as a guardian and advisor for Aurangazeb . Aurangzeb knew about Chatrasal’s bravery . So he asked him to rebel against Shah Jahan and fight for him when the war started . Chhatrasal refused point blank . He was a loyal soldier after all !

Sensing that the Emperor's life could be in danger because of his sons , Chatrasal wanted to leave for Delhi immediately . But Aurangazeb knew of his loyalty , and ordered him to be killed in his hut . But Chatrasal knew Aurangazeb would stop him from going to Delhi, , and had evacuated his hut the previous night.
 
Chatrasal left for Delhi with his men and other loyalists . They were ready to give their life for the sake of Shah Jahan . They wore Orange-colored clothes . Whenever a Rajput wears orange colored clothes , it means that they are in a ‘Do or Die’ mentality . Aurangazeb’s army did not expect Chatrasals men to fight back , and stood in shock for some time .

Aurangazeb’s forces chased Chhatrasal upto the banks of the Narmada river . At that time , the Narmada was overflowing on both sides . Chatrasal and his men had to cross this river to get to the emperor . But it was nearly impossible to cross the furiously raging and overflowing river . 
An overflowing river is not enough to stop the Rajput’s bravery . Will the Rajput bravery stop within themselves ? It flowed in their horses as well ! The horses swam to the other side , in freezing cold water . This way Chatrasal and his men reached Delhi   . Aurangazeb could not do anything except watch .

Because of the recent rebellions , Shah Jahan was heartbroken and ill. His daughter , Jahannara , stayed with him . Jahannara had a special affection towards Dara , who was the eldest and the heir to the throne according to tradition . She heard of Chatrasal’s coming and sent him her earrings . When a woman sends a man her earrings , he has to accept her as his sister . This was a Rajput tradition . Chatrasal accepted Jahannara as his sister  , and joined forces with Dara to fight the other princes .

The Rajputs fought with their usual valour .  In the battlefield , someone had given Dara wrong information about the enemies , and Dara got off his war elephant . This made the Rajputs think that Dara had fallen dead , and they began to scamper away from the battlefield . But Chatrasal Stood like a rock . He said to his fleeing soldiers 
“ Those who run from the battlefield are cowards , worthy to be scorned at and disrespected . I have eaten Shah Jahan’s salt and must be loyal to him , I will either return victorious , or be slain on this battlefield .”

After hearing their leader give such a powerful speech the warriors became courageous and returned to the battlefield . Chatrasal summoned his battle elephant and rode it . When an enemy cannonball hit the elephant , it ran away in pain . Chatrasal got off it and said “My elephant may run with fear from this field , but its commander will not turn away an inch “ . He summoned his favourite battle horse Javadiya .   Just as he swung his arm to charge a spear at Murad , an enemy cannonball knocked his head off his body , and he lay dead . That day a brave and loyal warrior sacrificed his life for Shah Jahan .

Betrayal , Cunningness and vengeance won , Aurangazeb killed all his brothers and came to power . He imprisoned his own father till he died . This is the truth history holds . Similarly , Chatrasal sacrificed his own life  to show his loyalty and thankfulness . This is also a record that history holds .

Chhatrasal was not only a great warrior . He was a great devotee of lord krishna and had an eye for art . He constructed a temple called ‘Kishor’ in Patan . Till date  , There exists a fort called ‘Chatramahal’ in his remembrance , in Pandi. 

### Chapter 5
The birthplace of bravery is Rajasthan . The Rajputs of this region are famed for their brave deeds.  They are ready to sacrifice their life for honour’s sake . 

Uday Simman was the Son of the great Rana Sangha . He led a life of great luxury and indulged in pleasures . He was considered a disgrace to the Rajput clan . It was under his reign that Mewar lost much of its territory to the Mughals . The people hated him because of this .

Once , unable to stop Akbar from conquering Chittor , he escaped to a safer place along with his sons . He left the responsibility of guarding  Chittor on two Rajput youths - Jaimal and Putta  . One was 16 , while the other was 17 ! 

The much famed and sacred capital of the Rajputs , was in the hands of two youths now ! It might be amusing to think how two youths were expected to protect a big city from Akbar’s army . In Mewar , there were 16 royal families . These families had the responsibility of protecting Chittor when required. Since Jaimal And Putta belonged to these royal families they were tasked with protecting Chittor . Both of their fathers had died fighting for Chittor . 

The common people were happy because a ruler who did not protect his citizens and country had left  their country now . “We will not sacrifice our motherland at any cost . We shall protect it , even if we have to lay down our lives for it ” said the brave Rajputs .

Putta’s mother sent his son to battle , wearing an orange dress . This was not the dress saints wear . When a Rajput wears the orange dress , it means “either victory or martyrdom” . Putta’s mother joined with the other brave women of Chittor . They thought “The king has left a chittor in our hands . The brave Rajputs are on the battlefield . It is our duty to help them . If the enemy captures  Chittor  , we will not have time to light a fire and attain an honourable death . We will become slaves of the enemy” .

Putta’s mother said “Those who do not want to be pushed to that shameful fate come along with me to the battlefield . Those who wish to live can remain here “  . All the Rajput women took up arms and followed Putta’s Mothers Command . On that day many wives and mothers showed their bravery and went heavenward . Upon seeing their bravery , even the cowards began to fight. The Rajputs put up such a great display of courage which had not been seen before . Even the Mughals were amazed that the Rajputs wished to die .

After Putta’s wife and mother fought with the enemies and attained martyrdom , Putta’s bravery grew exponentially . He swung his sword and many heads fell to the ground . Just after  , he was slain by the Mughals . Jaimal rushed to take his place. The Rajputs fought with renewed vigour now . They should have won that war . But luck was not on their side . One of Akbar's bullets slew Jaimal and there was no one to take his place . The remaining Rajputs became confused and were ultimately killed . Akbar went into Chittor , with the blood-stained clothes of the soldiers as his carpet . 

Akbar himself was a great warrior . True to the warrior spirit after seeing the bravery of Jaimal and Putta he said “These two 16 year olds have done wonders on the battlefield . Am I going to occupy this same country which raised such Bravehearts !” . Akbar wanted to honour the two warriors and make their bravery immortal. He designed a Statue of the two riding their elephants near the entrance of his palace at Delhi , to honour their bravery .

Chapter 6
Today our country is riddled with food shortages and Farmer’s protests . But many centuries ago , an Indian had worked on land reforms , devising a system to measure land-tax and eradicated the suffering of the farmers .

 His name was Raja Todarmal .  Famed as one of the 9 gems of Akbar’s court . He was not born into royalty . He was born in present day Uttar Pradesh’s Sitapur District , in a village called Laharpur . During that time , the government officials used to exploit the poor farmers for too much land-tax . Todarmal did not like this at all . He used to argue  “To run the country, tax money is required . But to get this money the poor farmer’s should not suffer”  . Although Todarmal was a poor steward in his area , he used to advise his superiors on ways to gather land-tax without burdening the farmers .

As time went by Todarmal’s ability reached the ears of Akbar . In the year 1573 Akbar successfully conquered Gujarat . Akbar left the responsibility of guarding his new territory and getting the land-tax in the hands of Todarmal . Todarmal measured the lands and graded them based on their produce  . The land-tax would be gathered based on this assessment . In around two years , this system became very profitable . The farmers were ready to pay the tax , which was now fairly charged and the royal coffers filled with the tax money . Akbar was so impressed with Todarmal that he handed the responsibility of collecting tax for the whole of the kingdom to him . Todarmal was honoured with the title ‘Raja’ .

Todarmal divided Akbar’s huge nation into 182 zones . Every zone generated around 1 crore rupees in land revenue . Every zone was under the supervision of an official called ‘Karodi’.  Earlier these ‘Karodi’s’ used to be very cruel and exploited the farmers . They used to demand tax as per their whims and fancies . Once Todarmal was appointed in charge he saw to it that such Karodi’s were severely punished . Many Karodi’s were even imprisoned .

During Todarmal’s time , the land was measured using Jute ropes . These ropes had a tendency to shrink when wet , and expand when dry , This proved a problem for accurate measurement . To solve this problem , Todarmal came up with a system of using long bamboo sticks strengthened with iron to measure land . He ordered the village superintendents to measure the lands , and submit their records to the government . 
As the head of the revenue department , Todarmal classified lands into 4 categories - Bolaj , Badthi , Saasar , Panjar . Bolaj was the type of ground which provided yield twice a year . It was the highest in the land ranking system . Badthi was the type of land that was uncultivated after one year harvest .  Saasar was the land that has been left uncultivated for 3-4 years . This way , land revenue was fixed based on produce , on an area equivalent to modern day acre .

Todarmal brought many improvements to the revenue system and helped the country’s economy grow . Traditionally , the tax was filed using food grains  . Todarmal introduced a reform here as well . Now , the tax could be filed through an equal amount  of money as well , based on the average cost of the grains from the last 10 years . The farmers could also pay tax in the form of grain itself . The farmers were relieved from tax , or had to pay only a part of it during times of famine . This was called the ‘Dakkavi’ system . This way he was a god for the farmers , and reduced the earnings of the tax officials , proving to be an enemy for them . 

Todarmal wished that Hindus should hold positions of high esteem within the government , like Muslims . This is why he wrote a book about taxation in the Persian Language . The Hindus who read the book indirectly learned Persian , making it easier for them to get a job at Akbar’s court . 

He convinced Akbar to remove the Jizya tax that was imposed on non-muslims , stating that it was unfair . Though he served in a high position at a muslim court , he never forgot that he was a Hindu . He would not do any work without completing his prayer . Only when he went to the court did he dress like the Mughals and spoke their language . Todarmal believed that wearing the Turk’s attire and speaking his language would not convert him into a Turk . He did not accept Akbar’s new religion ‘Din-i-illahi’ and considered it best for a Hindu to remain Hindu . 

Not only was Todarmal a clever administrator , he was a brave warrior too . Akbar relied one Todarmal during difficult situations. 
 There was frequent rioting in Bengal , since it was very far from Delhi , To subdue Bengal Akbar sent Todarmal there . In a span of just 4 years , Todarmal  restored peace in Bengal . Similarly , he helped subdue Sultan Jabbar of Gujarat . 

During this period , the Mansabdari system was prevalent . Under this system , Mansabdars maintained foot soldiers and horse troops for the empire , and were paid a salary for that . The salary was for maintaining the troops , but the Mansabdars used it for their personal work and rented horses when the emperor checked on them. To prevent this from happening , Todarmal introduced a system of branding horses . This way , Royal horses could be identified easily . This prevented counterfeiting .  Todarmal also instructed the Mansabdars to maintain a list of the names of all the foot-soldiers they maintained . 

Todarmal also made arrangements to ensure supply of food , clothing and weapons to soldiers of war . Akbar’s faith in Todarmal was unshakable . When Akbar left for Kashmir in 1598 , he left Todarmal in charge of the kingdom . This was the amount of trust and respect he had for Todarmal . Even Todarmal’s enemies praised him for his honesty and clever administration .

Todarmal had now aged . He wanted to spend his last leg of life at Haridwar . His request was accepted by Akbar . While he was leaving for Haridwar he received a message from Akbar , reading “Service to mankind is the highest form of prayer” . Todarmal understood that the kingdom required a few more years of his service and came back to the capital .

14 days after this incident , Todarmal was killed by an enemy . The person who killed him had been punished by Todarmal for some crime earlier and wanted revenge . It is indeed sad that this  wise and able administrator had a such disgraceful end to his life















