## Chapter 1
Author: K. Jeevabharathi  
Translator: hydino2085143

---

The places like Ottappidaram, Ettayapuram, Kovilpatti, Vilathikulam located in Tuticorin district have semi-arid climate. The people here are mainly agrarian and their occupation solely relies on monsoon. If the monsoon fails, the fate of the people is in question. However in any dire situation, these people do not give up their valour and honour. So they were able to resist any hardship they faced and were brave enough to embrace death happily. One such place is Panchalankurichi village which is located within the region of Ottappidaram. The mothers in this village would apply the sands of this village on their babies' foreheads and would even mix it with the milk they feed the babies. It's their belief that the soil of this place itself would make their children grow up as a brave and courageous person. One such brave person lived in this place. He is remembered by the people even after two centuries. Even today, at the village called Kayatharu there's a place alongside the road where people place a few stones as a tribute to this legendary hero. These stones have accumulated to form a large pile and it stands tall as a monument. We have forgotten about the British officer who imposed death penalty for this brave man. We've also forgotten those traitors who had a role in this hero's death sentence. But we shall always have a place in our hearts for this brave hero who steadfastly fought against British aggression. That man is none other than Veerapandiya Kattabomman.

<span class="next">[Next](./chapter-2.md)</span>