## Chapter 5
Author: K. Jeevabharathi  
Translator: Derpitron
---  
Even though the victory against Pulithevar was good news for the British, they were very much concerned about losing to Velu Nachiyar. If their opponents like Dindugul Haider Ali, Virupakshi Gopala Naicker, Kerala Verma got together and formed a formidable force, then it could cause havoc for the British. So their strategy from then onwards changed accordingly.

The Britishers concluded that they cannot take control over the country by just being tax collectors like this. Hence they decided to get into action and start active territorial expansion. As a part of this an agreement was made between the British and Nawabs. As per this agreement, the Britishers gained administrative privileges for Palayams. Accordingly it was agreed that Britishers would set up a revenue board and assign a post called collector who would be in-charge of collecting taxes from Palayakkarars. Apart from this, the Britishers also gained the authority to survey the Palayams and restructure their boundaries. So from being pseudo rulers they became the actual rulers of the Palayams.

Accordingly the Britishers appointed a general named Maxwell as the collector of Tirunelveli. As soon as Maxwell took charge several Palayakkarars submissively went to his office, congratulated him and had sworn their allegiance to the British. Among such Palayakkarars, one was Ettappa Nayakkan, the ruler of Ettayapuram. He had also badmouthed Veerapandiya Kattabomman to Maxwell. Unlike other Palayakkarars, Veerapandiya Kattabomman didn't go and meet the collector. He maintained his dignity and honour as a king.

Later, Maxwell decided to visit Panchalankuruchi and talk about taxes with Veerapandiya Kattabomman. When Maxwell went there, he was duly welcomed like a guest by Veerapandiya Kattabomman. His manners were in contrast to what Ettappan had told. So Maxwell was genuinely confused. Then they started talking about various issues and finally Maxwell asked about the taxes.

Kattabomman's facial reaction changed as soon as the topic of tax was discussed. He clearly retorted to Maxwell that he can offer any donation to the British. But paying tax to the British is out of question since Britishers were foreign people who had no right to collect taxes from Palayakkarars. He also made it clear that he's not a coward who would just oblige to whatever demands the British place. So Maxwell sternly asked one last time whether Veerapandiya Kattabomman's views regarding this matter is final. To that Veerapandiya Kattabomman replies that this is not only his final decision but also a well-thought one too. He said that the skies are offering rain, earth is yielding a bountiful harvest, his people are toiling day and night and he is taking care of their needs. So he raised the question as to why they're bound to pay taxes to someone who isn't participating in their welfare activities. Having known that Kattabomman isn't ready to even budge a little from his stance, a contemptuous Maxwell left the place. He later reported to his higher officials that Kattabomman cannot be dealt with peace talks anymore. However the officers tried to negotiate a couple of times through letters. But Kattabomman didn't respond to any of their letters. Not only did he reply, but he also tore those letters into pieces and discarded them. 

Finally Britishers thought of teaching a lesson to Kattabomman. So they sent a huge army under the command of a British commander, Alan. The army had gathered around Panchalankurichi fort and cannons started to bombard the walls of Panchalankurichi fort. However soldiers from within the fort launched a spear attack through the breached walls of the fort. They fought an intense war against the British forces. They would attack the British troops and hide when the British tried to fire their guns in retaliation. Then they would once again attack with their spears and then go back into hiding. This kept continuing on and on until Alan realised that he was fighting a losing battle. So he decided to retreat and thus the British troops fled from the place. This became an example in history that strength isn't something that's always gauged by weapons. It's also the spirit at heart that counts.
