hydino2085143Hydino## Chapter 8
Author: K. Jeevabharathi  
Translator: Derpitron

---

Lusington was very angry that Kattabomman had left Kamuthi without even meeting him. So he decided to go to Ramanathapuram right from Kamuthi. He wanted to go to Ramalinga vilas to enquire about the meeting between Kattabomman and Jackson. The British authorities present over there talked endlessly about Kattabomman's fearless and reckless behaviour while talking to Jackson, the way he escaped out of the building from the midst of the British soldiers. Hearing all this, Lusington became nervous at the same time reverent towards Kattabomman. However he was keen about subduing Kattabomman by some means or the other. At that time, the memory of Ettappan, the king of Ettayapuram crossed his mind.

Ettappan was loyal to the British and as a result he was frequently invited by the British for taking part in banquets and dinners. He was also a big fan of foreign alcoholic beverages. So the Britishers also exploited his weakness and tried to make use of him as much as they could by inviting him for dinners. Lusington also decided to plan a grand dinner and invite Ettappan as a guest. He sought the help of Maxwell and Alexander Heron for this purpose.

A grand dinner was organised and Ettappan was invited for it. Heron, Maxwell and Lusington had welcomed Ettappan in such a grand manner that Ettappan was very surprised by that. Then Maxwell offered drinks to Ettappan as they started their discussion. As soon as there was talk about Kattabomman, Ettappan became angry and he started spewing venom about Kattabomman. He said that Palayakkarars of the likes of himself cherished their association with the British and duly paid taxes to them. But Kattabomman was arrogant and also didn't pay the taxes. Having said this, he asked Lusington as to why the Britishers haven't taken down Kattabomman yet. Lusington replied that the meeting organised that day was for talking about handling Kattabomman. Ettappan interrupted and said it's enough with just talking about Kattabomman and that they need to act. So Lusington said that they need Ettappan's help for the same. 

Lusington then explained that the Britishers couldn't figure out what's going on in Kattabomman's mind. Even when they meet him, they aren't able to understand his gestures and language completely. So they wanted someone who could capture Kattabomman's thoughts more precisely than they could. For this purpose, Lusington wanted Ettappan to go in disguise to Panchalankurichi and meet Kattabomman. Ettappan was afraid to do so but he didn't express it because he didn't want to upset the British by any means. So he accepted the task though he was afraid of Kattabomman. The day for Ettappan's visit was planned and he went in disguise to Panchalankurichi.

As Ettappan went to Panchalankurichi, he requested for the appointment to meet Veerapandiya Kattabomman. Once Kattabomman allowed him inside, Ettappan started coming towards where the meeting was to take place. By this time Veerapandiya Kattabomman was able to make out that the person coming in was Ettappan. As soon as Ettappan came, he started talking about the British and advised Kattabomman not to war with them and asked to pay all the tax money he owed them. He immensely praised the British and asked Kattabomman also to befriend them. Finally he warned that if he went up against the British, his fort would be shattered to the ground.

Kattabomman became furious upon hearing Ettappan's words. He sarcastically asked if this is the reason why the great king Ettappa Nayakkar came in disguise under the command of the British. When Ettappan knew that he was found out he hung his head low. And immediately Kattabomman's brother Oomaithurai took out his sword. But Kattabomman stopped him and told his brother that Ettappan was also a Palayakkarar but instead of standing up against the British, he chose to fall at their feet in exchange for the dinner and drinks they would offer. He also said that Ettappan is accustomed to paying taxes to the foreign merchants (Britishers).

Ettappan immediately interrupted with fear and quipped that Kattabomman was calling the Britishers as foreigners in each of his breaths when he himself was indeed a foreigner. Upon hearing these words, Vellaiya thevan and Oomaithurai were furious and were about to draw out their swords. But Veerapandiya Kattabomman stopped them and replied that he acknowledges himself to be of Telugu descent and also said that it's the same case for Ettappan as well. Both of their ancestors were from Andhra only. But one crucial difference between the two of them Kattabomman opposed the British who were completely alienated people to this land whereas Ettappan was fond of serving them loyally by selling the country and its people to those strangers. Finally Kattabomman also cautioned Ettappan to go back the way he came without infuriating them with his rants if he didn't want to face any dire consequence.

Ettappan's mission of meeting Kattabomman in disguise had come to a futile end. An irritated Ettappan went to Tirunelveli and narrated this incident to Lusington.
